Insulin is necessary for cells in the body to take in glucose.
The liver both makes glucose from food
and stores glucose for later use as energy.
Food comes into the body and is broken down into glucose,
which travels through the blood to be used as energy.
The liver can also make glucose if the body needs it.
When glucose enters the blood
the pancreas releases the right amount of a hormone called insulin
to balance the blood levels by delivering glucose
into the cells that need energy
and storing the extra.
Problems can occur when there is no insulin,
not enough insulin, or the cells can't recognize insulin
and can't use the glucose for energy.
Insulin, the medication,
regulates glucose the same way the hormone insulin does.
Once in the bloodstream,
insulin binds to insulin receptors on the cell surface.
This signals the cell to send glucose transporters to the cell's surface.
This transport mechanism allows glucose to be taken into
the cell where it is used for energy.
Removing blood glucose restores a normal balance
between blood glucose and insulin.